So continuing on with
our packages discussion.
Now you may have actually noticed, we
talked about this briefly, the fact that
the way the AWT class has been imported
at the top of the window is like so.
So the line import.java.awt, I mentioned
before, I'll tell you what that does.
The star means to import all
the class interfaces and
static objects from the java.awt class,
AWT class.
So, you can do that, or we could have
actually done something similar, which is,
we could have actually copied the relevant
points we wanted and done it manually.
So, in other words, we could have
actually deleted that line there.
We could have pasted in these references,
but
notice when I do that,
we're gonna actually paste them in.
IntelliJ is actually changing this and
making it a star anyway, but the point is,
we could have actually specified and done
something similar to what we've done here.
We could have done import java.awt.Frame,
for example, which is one of the ones we
actually used, and done all manually.
But by doing the star,
that's equivalent of actually saying,
give me access to everything
that's in that particular class.
Now, another thing you might be asking is,
well okay,
we've done the star there,
why do we also need to do these?
Cuz we actually remove these,
we should get rid of them, temporarily.
We actually get IntelliJ coming
up actually saying, well,
where have they gone, I need them.
I paste them back and actually go,
at first glance you think that the import
above would actually be doing everything,
but it's not actually the case.
There's actually two
different packages here.
There's java.awt and
there's java.awt.event.
So java.awt.event is actually
a separate package to java.awt,
and that's why the star,
the asterisk, the wild card for
matching all,
doesn't actually bring these in here.
And if we had a changed event and
change that to star.
Like so, then that would have meaned that
we wouldn't need to use Window Event
because Window Event would
automatically be found.
But in that case, we don't wanna do that.
It was easier, and the other thing was
IntelliJ automatically added those for
us as we were actually adding them.
Just to see what I'm talking
about a little bit further,
we can actually hover over frame, this
part here, and I can hold down Control
on my Mac, and I believe it's
actually the Control key for a PC,
and you can see that Tooltip
actually briefly pops up.
It's actually popping up
on the screen there now.
And it describes a frame class,
it actually says that it extends from
windows and implements menu container.
The important thing is at the top it's
got the JDK, the Java version 1.8 and
it actually shows you also
the package where that's come from.
So we go down here to Windows Adapter.
Notice how that says java.awt.Event,
and that's the package that Window Adapter
comes from, and it's got the JDK again.
And it's also got some details
about the class and in this case,
the constructor and how to actually
call on and if there's any parameters.
This is a good way, by doing that
pressing again CMD on the Mac, and
I believe it's CTRL on the PC,
might be ALT.
I always get confused, but it's one of
those on the Windows and Windows and
Linux to actually do that, and you can
actually then hover over something and
see some more information about
the package in the album information
relating to a particular class.
So the other thing you can actually do
is you come over here to where it's got
external libraries.
And I haven't shown you
that before either.
You actually never get to the AWT
package and start expanding it out, so
click on that and it shows all the various
packages that we can actually start
sort of finding our way down there.
You can also do this, you can also come
down here to AWT, you can click that,
and those have actually
opened up automatically.
You can do that for most things as well,
I actually find that for you.
That's a really great shortcut
to enable you to just
sort of find a particular
file that you're looking for.
Cuz you might have been looking for
in here rt.jar you may not have been able
to see the Java.awt package from there.
So I just click on that, again,
it's Control, I believe, on a PC,
in my case it's on a Mac.
I can click on there and
I can go to any of these things.
Well, I can't go to the source
code til you get class level.
The clicking to get to this left-hand
side is only at package level.
So I need to go back and type, click on
AWT for example to get to orders well.
And again if it's close off event,
you can say we've got font in there.
And we used the font within this before.
Lots of information as Java.utool.
So if we close down AWT, there's
actually other ones in here as well.
There's the u tool,
we've actually used that before.
There's some common things in there.
Lots of different classes,
it can be a great way for
you to actually just click on and
find out more information.
Double click,
it will actually bring up some more
information about the particular class.
Again, just to clarify,
the java.awt.event, as you can see,
when I actually click on event,
the left hand side,
that's physically a different package
than when I actually click on java.awt.
It's physically a different package.
It's sort of like
a subpackage if you will,
sub part of AWT, but they are different
and that's, again, one of the asterisk,
the style the Metro didn't actually work.
So when you're actually importing
classes from another package,
you can actually choose to
import the entire package.
And notice that IntelliJ did that
on line 3 with the Java.awt.star.
Or of course,
as you saw in lines four and five,
you can actually just specify the class
of interfaces that you actually need.
So there's really no right or
wrong way about this.
There's lots of heated debate
about all the pros and cons.
One thing, though, you should be aware of,
if you are actually using something like
line three, where you're putting a star.
There's a possible impact if you've
got a new class of interfaces added to
one of the packages you actually import.
So if the other package
contains a class or
an interface with the same name,
then your program's not going to compile.
So you might think that's unlikely to
happen, but it does actually happen.
One example was with the java.awt package.
So there's actually several reasons I
actually chose to use this package for
the example here and this is one of them.
So in Java 1.1,
which I know was a very long time ago, the
java.org.package contained a list class.
This was often imported as java.awt.star
and of course Java.util.package
is also imported as java.util.star,
and everything worked fine then.
But in Java 1.2, son included
a list interface in java.util and
of course we've used the list
interface quite a bit.
So the programs importing these
two packages continue to run.
But because Java actually compiles
the fully qualified class now
In the compiled code.
But the point here, and
this is the big point,
when one of the programs needed to be
changed, it wouldn't compile anymore.
And that's because the entire package has
been that point, the star in other words.
So Java actually had no idea which of
the two packages the list I was actually
referring to.
Was at the list class in java.awt or
the new list interface in java.util?
So, if it was a different program,
I'm making changes to the program,
they'll probably be cursing the original
programmer for leaving code in there to
leaving to compile, when in fact the code
had been fine when it had been left.
So the problem arose because of
a change in a third party library.
So explicitly importing the class,
the list class, in other words,
not using the star, would have actually
avoided that problem altogether.
Okay, so moving on, it's now time to
actually create one of our own packages.
So we're going to do that now.
We're going to another new project, and
we're gonna do another Java one again.
Again create project from template,
Command Line App as we've done before.
And we'll call this one PackageDemo.
And the actual package name,
we're gonna do
com.example.mypackage and
create that project.
And open this window.
We're gonna close down the other
window that we had open.
And just a recap in case you're wondering
what com.example is, the 90 conventions
with Java is a com.example and aug.example
are actually reserved and can be used for
packages that you're never
going to distribute and
this is very useful if you
have got your own domain.
So you could substitute aug.example,
instead of com.example there.
Or if you've got your own domain,
as you've seen me use com.timbuchalka,
you can also use that as well.
It doesn't really matter
in this particular test.
This is more down the track when you're
actually packaging your own source code.
What we're gonna do is open this up.
Now what I'm gonna do here,
is I'm gonna actually delete the package.
Before I do that I'm gonna
go here into source,
notice now I'm actually
in the source folder.
So what I'm going to do is create
a new class, gonna right-click that,
New, Java Class, noting that I'm
actually click at the source level.
And we're gonna call that one Main,
so it's a new class there.
Then we're gonna come back here to
package, and I'm going to delete that.
Delete the package.
And that deletes the package and
the sub folders.
And that's how we still
have com.example in there.
So, now I'm gonna right click in here,
right click New,
come down here to Package.
And we can then enter it again, just to
show you how to go about creating a new
one, com.example.mypackage again.
Notice how that's now
created a new package for us.
And just to confirm that,
we actually right-click on
the project name, click on New.
There's now options for package, notice
that it's actually path and package,
cuz I've got a course on Python.
But there's actually no option for
us to actually enter a package there.
We can actually do one in the source file.
We click on that and
the Package option actually comes up for
us to actually select
a new package in Java.
So the other thing could do now is,
we could actually move the main class.
So to do that,
we can just click on that and
then just move it to the package name and
then release the button.
It actually comes up and says,
do you want to move it to this folder and
you can see the folder.
It's got the package
com/example/mypackage.
I click on Refactor, you notice that the
main class, the new one that we created,
bearing in mind the old one actually
got deleted when we actually deleted
the package, has been moved into this
package as com.example.mypackage again.
And you can see that's actually physically
now in that, within that package.
So we go back and just have a looked
in the browser, at this code.
So if I have a look at
PackageDemo > Source.
Now, this is the actual physical
folder that contains this code and
there's the code there.
And I can actually just hold
down the button there and
you can sort of see the navigation there.
We've got PackageDemo was the name of
the project, the source folder and
the package is com/example/mypackage,
so there's several sub folders.
The package name has been added, as you
can see, to the list here automatically.
So in summary, the package statement
defines which package the class,
in this case, Main belongs to.
But the directory structure has to
also match the component parts of
the package name.
So in other words, folder, sub-folder com,
sub-folder example, sub-folder mypackage.
And looking at that structure,
we can see that that's mirrored exactly,
com, example,
then mypackage of the is sub folder.
So we actually changed this and
made this aug.example instead of com.
We'll actually get an error,
and it says the package name
doesn't correspond to the file
path com.example.mypackage.
So they have to actually match, and
IntelliJ will actually enforce that.
So we just undo that change,
then everything goes away.
There is actually a correct
way to rename a package.
If you wanna rename a package,
you just come up here and
right-click it and do Refactor > Rename.
And you can actually literally change
it to whatever you want at that point.
Click on refactor,
then it will actually change,
taking into account that it will
actually rename the actual folder.
So just to show how that works,
lets go ahead and change that.
So we'll change it org.
Re-factor.
Noting how that's actually changed there.
It's now all.example.mypackage.
Com.example was the package that
was leftover when we deleted
my package previously.
But we've not got
an all.example.mypackage, which remains.
Now we go back in and
have a look at the code,
noticing how com source com
example's no longer there anymore.
Pick up to source level is now org,
org, example, my package and
there's our code again.
And you can see that
it's now been renamed.
So, IntelliJ, when you go to actually
use that, plus you've renamed that,
as you can see.
And you can also specify a package
name as part of the class name,
when you're actually creating a new class.
So in the next part video, I'm actually
going to create a game package and
show you how to do that.
And also create some classes that might
be useful in that adventure game.
And we' ll be using some of the code
from the interface challenge that we've
done previously.
So I'll see you in that next video.